## Part 1: parsing

The language we are making is an interpreted one. This means that we basically need to implement two things: a **parser** and an **evaluator**. In this first part, we implement the parser.

The job of the parser is to convert the program into something the evaluator understands. The evaluator evaluates whatever the parser produces, and returns the result. Here is a nice diagram to explain everything:

```

            +-----------+        +-------------+
    text    |           |  AST   |             |  result
  +-------->|  parser   |+------>|  evaluator  |+-------->
            |           |        |             |
            +-----------+        +-------------+
```

The format produced by the parser is called the *abstract syntax tree* (AST) of the program.

### Our AST

So what does our AST look like? Lets have a sneak peek.

```java
String program = "" +
    "(define fact" +
    "    ;; Factorial function" +
    "    (lambda (n)" +
    "        (if (eq n 0)" +
    "            1 ; Factorial of 0 is 1, and we deny" +
    "              ; the existence of negative numbers" +
    "            (* n (fact (- n 1))))))";
AbstractSyntaxTree ast = parse(program)
```

The `ast` variable will then hold a data structure which looks like this (here represented as ClassName(value)):

```
SExpression(
    Symbol("define"),
    Symbol("fact"),
    SExpression(
        Symbol("lambda"),
        SExpression(Symbol("n")),
        SExpression(
            Symbol("if"),
            SExpression(
                Symbol("eq"),
                Symbol("n"),
                Int(0)
            ),
            Int(1),
            SExpression(
                Symbol("*"),
                Symbol("n"),
                SExpression(
                    Symbol("fact"),
                    SExpression(
                        Symbol("-"),
                        Symbol("n"),
                        Int(1)
                    )
                )
            )
        )
    )
)
```

The AST can only consist of classes in the `com.diy.lisp.model` package. These are just wrapper classes for our values, making it easier for us to evaluate our AST later on, and work more or less the same way:

- The class is named after what it represents (`Int` -> ints in our language)
- It holds its own value (`SExpression` holds a list of values)
- `AbstractSyntaxTree` and `Atom` are abstract classes, and will not be used by you directly. 

The AST, then, is created as follows:

- Comments are removed.
- Symbols are represented by the class Symbol.
    + `"foo"` parses to `new Symbol("foo")`
- The symbols `#t` and `#f` are represented by the class Bool.
    + `"#t"` parses to `new Bool(True)`
- Integers are represented as the class Int.
    + `"42"` parses to `new Int(42)`
- The Lisp list expressions are represented by the class SExpression.
    `"(foo #f 100)"` parses to `new SExpression(new Symbol("foo"), new Bool(false), new Int(100))`
- Nested expressions are parsed accordingly.
    + `"(+ (- 1 2) 42))"` parses to `new SExpression(new Symbol("+"), new SExpression(new Symbol("-"), new Int(1), new Int(2)), new Int(42))`
    
All of the value classes you will need are in the `com.diy.lisp.model` package, ready for you to use. All of the contains some skeleton code, including convenience static initializers so your can write `sexp()` instead of the more verbose `new SExpression()`.    

### Your turn

The parsing is done in `Parser.java`. It is your job to implement the `parse` function here. A lot of the gritty work of counting parentheses and such has been done for you, but you must stitch everything together.

- Have a look at the provided functions in `Parser.java` before you start. These should prove useful. 
- The following command runs the tests of Part 1.

    ```bash
    mvn -P part1 test
    ```
    + (or use your favorite IDE to run the tests)
- Run the tests and hack away until the tests are passing. Each test has a description, and you should probably read it if you get stuck.

### What's next?

Go to [part 2](2.md) where we evaluate some simple expressions.
